---
title: "Statement of Teaching Philosophy"
excerpt: "Through my seven years of teaching at the university level at various institutions in the United States and in Mexico, I have developed a teaching philosophy which values the contributions of the individual student, honors their personal lfie experiences as valid sources of expertise, and recognizes the power in diversity."
collection: portfolio
---
by Sarah Alice Campbell
---

>Through my seven years of teaching at the university level at various institutions in the United States and in Mexico, I have developed a teaching philosophy which values the contributions of the individual student, honors their personal life experiences as valid sources of expertise, and recognizes the power in diversity. My teaching is informed by my research’s emphasis on intercultural and interdisciplinary collaboration and is rooted in the work of Augusto Boal.  

When I first read Augusto Boal’s Theatre of the Oppressed, I was struck by his description of the misunderstanding that arose in the early work of ALFIN, a group tasked with improving literacy rates in Peru. They found that the people whom the state had considered illiterate were indeed already literate – just not in Spanish. This has stuck with me throughout my teaching experience – students that come into the classroom all enter with different languages, competencies, and vocabularies, each one of these a valuable contribution to the classroom. I do not want students to abandon their knowledge gained from past experiences because what they are learning should serve as a complement to their already established understanding of the world around them. In order to achieve this, I ask that my students become active agents in their own learning. By giving the students the opportunity to shape the way in which they learn, guided through my knowledge on the subject matter as well as course objectives, the classroom shifts from a passive learning environment to an active one. For example, I teach Play Analysis through the metaphor of a toolbox. As their instructor, I am providing students with some tools for analyzing plays. These tools are not meant to replace their own methods of interpreting and analyzing a script but rather serve as a complement to their already established methods for understanding and interpreting art. The students then decide how to assemble their own set of diverse tools which they can use to approach plays of different styles, genres, structures, etc.  

I believe in transparency in terms of pedagogy. For example, when teaching a concept like structure, I explain to my students the importance of such a concept, but also highlight that the preoccupation with structure and plot has been historically determined by the adherence to western theatre genres. Further, I review the syllabus in detail with my students and engage them in a conversation about my rationale for teaching particular plays. The students in my courses have the opportunity to read plays that reflect their own life experiences as well the experiences of others. We also work toward discovering new methods of analyzing plays that are not derived from a western perspective. I aim for parity in representation of gender when choosing plays for the course as well as a selection of playwrights from diverse backgrounds. 

For me, respecting diversity in the classroom is also about a process of reckoning and relearning. For example, the course that I taught last spring, Foundations of the American Theatre, was designed with the idea of coming to terms with the ideology of the Doctrine of Discovery and Manifest Destiny which led to the genocide of countless Indigenous nations and continues in efforts by the U.S. government to reduce the population of Indigenous people through a disrespect for treaties and sovereignty. This was not something that I learned until comparatively recently and was information that I had to seek on my own; something that was never taught to me in a classroom. If steps toward recognizing sovereignty and decolonization are to be successful, I believe that educators need to begin to cover these topics in the classrooms. This course examined how the nascent identity of the United States was staged from the early colonial period to the 1930s. At the end of course, we examined contemporary plays which critique the racist portrayals on the American stage in the 19th century.  

Respecting diversity in the classroom also requires that I destabilize the traditional roles that appear in western education systems, wherein the instructor pours knowledge into the students; Freire’s “banking model” of education. I recognize learning as a dynamic back-and-forth process that is most effective through dialogue. I recognize that I am more of a facilitator for helping students to understand new concepts; one who develops and designs situations of learning. I actively seek to disrupt the ideas that I am the individual that can provide all the answers, or that I am the arbiter of an objective source of knowledge that students either understand or don’t. This has resulted in a radical restructuring of classroom management techniques and teaching strategies. The majority of my own teachers adhered to a lecture-based dynamic. While I recognize that this method does hold value, I try to limit its use in the classroom space. The shift from lecture to discussion begins to change the dynamic in the classroom to one where students actually have the opportunity to contribute. Through my training in second language acquisition, I have found that it is highly effective to design scenarios or situations where students can work to create knowledge together. Through employing active learning strategies, encouraging dialogue, and using technology wherever possible, I seek to make the classroom a dynamic place where students have the opportunity to contribute through their own unique talents and diverse life experiences.  

In my current position at the University of Idaho, I teach a variety of courses in the area of theatre history, dramatic literature, pedagogy, and dramaturgy. I teach courses at the graduate and undergraduate level in both on campus and in our distance MFA program. Teaching in the distance program has changed my approach to teaching, as I have had to find new methods to interact with students that are not physically, but virtually, present in the classroom. These students participate in the same way as students on campus but call in for each of the classes using Zoom. At first this was a challenge as I found that I had to split focus between those physically present in the classroom and those joining via Zoom. I started to use Google Docs to engage students more in discussions, as this enabled all students to participate anonymously answering questions in the document. This paired with discussion has been a very effective way to manage this split classroom. As the class sizes have grown, I use breakout rooms to encourage more student participation in discussions and provide process or practice-based assignments as much as possible. In addition, I use third-party applications like FlipGrid so that students can share their impressions and thoughts as they are reading through video recordings and I can respond in turn with videos to their questions and thoughts. I am interested in continuing to find new ways to engage students, whether they be physically or virtually present in the room.  

 