---
title: "The Monster in the Jungle: the Xtáabay as Monstrous Woman"
collection: talks
type: "Working Group"
permalink: /talks/2020-07-24-conference
venue: "American Society for Theatre Research"
date: 2020-07-24
location: "Arlington, VA"
---

The Xtáabay, a young woman who captures drunk men wandering through the forest at night, is a classic figure in Yucatec Maya folklore. Commonly depicted in music, visual arts, and the theatre, the Xtáabay has become a symbol for evil and lasciviousness. Her physical form, long dark hair covering her naked breasts, with a white huipil draped just above her hips obscures her most ghastly feature: her legs. With the right leg of a goat and the left of a chicken, the Xtáabay is a beautiful, enticing, yet dangerous monster. In this research project, I examine two very different treatments of the Xtáabay story in the theatre: *El reflejo de la Xtáabay* and *La Xtáabay*. Sayda Santos Dzib’s unpublished play, *El reflejo de la Xtáabay*, reworks the traditional narrative of the Xtáabay into one where the female voice and body occupy a rare position of power in society, albeit still through apparently deviant behavior. I view this iteration of the Xtáabay story alongside another play, produced by the community theatre group Jootzuk from Tihosuco, Quintana Roo, which features the Xtáabay character in a more traditional light. I read these texts through the scholarship of monster theory combined with ethnographic fieldwork to understand how the Xtáabay represents anxiety generated by contemporary feminist movements in the Yucatán peninsula.   

This paper was developed as part of the Monsters in the Public Sphere Working Group at the American Society for Theatre Research. See the program [here](https://cdn.ymaws.com/www.astr.org/resource/resmgr/2019_conference/ASTR-ConferenceProgram2019-s.pdf).
